Lunar Rhythm Gardens

2009 saw the birth of a 90 member CSA nestled comfortably between Lindsay, Port Perry and Bowmanville.  Having farmed all her life, Jessica Foote decided to branch off from her family farms’ production of naturally raised meats to grow a garden and engage the surrounding community more actively in local agriculture.  With an eclectic collection of draft horses, old farm implements and willing friends and family, Jessica intends to continue sharing her passion for ecological farming with the community, stating, “We’ve only just begun.”



“Our first year was very experimental.  We were really just figuring it all out.  While we obviously will continue to learn a lot, year two gives us a chance to hone our skills and focus on producing more of the highest quality vegetables for our CSA members. We are going to experiment with growing a few new crops such as sweet potatoes and celery, and I am also adding a small fall/winter CSA to the garden experience this year. I really want to be able to have veggies all year round.” explained Jess. “I am also really excited to have a team of five enthusiastic girls working and learning about gardening, and farming this year. It is great to have so much interest being expressed about ecological farming.” stated Jess.



Jess explains, “I’ve had quite a few members sign up already, and still have a few spots, but they are filling up fast.”  By engaging in a CSA people sign up for a season of weekly distributions of locally grown vegetables.  Vegetables can be picked up at the garden site, or at an in-town drop-off in Lindsay, Bowmanville or Port Perry.  The selection of produce evolves in accordance with the change of the seasons. This year Lunar Rhythm Gardens is aiming to serve between 110 & 125 CSA members, and in addition to attending the Port Perry Farmers Market, will also be attending the Lakefield Farmers Market. We also supply a local Co-operative called By the Bushel with our fresh locally grown produce and meat.

Jessica's Bio  Jessica Foote was born in Port Perry, Ont.  And grew up on her family farm: working with her father as soon as she could walk. Her family raised Holsteins, shipped cream and had farrow to finish pigs till Jessica was 9 years old. Then they switched to a cow calf beef operation, finishing pigs and raising chickens. Since a young age Jessica always knew she wanted to farm and has spent her lifetime gathering the skills she needed. At sixteen she logged with Arbor North for 4 years, in sustainable forest management with horses. And at that point she decided that she wanted to farm with horses. Through friends she found a learning opportunity at Orchard Hill Farms in St.Thomas, while attending a ploughing day. There they farmed with horses. Jessica went on to do a short internship on their CSA in 2008 after 6 years as a dairy herdsperson on various farms. Lunar Rhythm Gardens was born in 2009; Jessica now runs the 100 member Summer CSA and a 40 member Winter CSA on her own with the help of family, friends and interns. Jessica also attends two farmers markets one in Lakefield & one in Port Perry, as well as helps to supply vegetables to By the Bushel Co-op. She markets her father’s meat, as well, to the markets, to the CSA, and By the Bushel.  The farm raises beef, pork, chicken, and sells eggs at farm gate. She does this with the help of her family, 3 draft horses and her baby girl Jessalynn.

Jessica has taken the organic agriculture courses through Nova Scotia Agriculture College, taken a barefoot farrier course, and attended many other agriculture workshops. She is also a member of  the National Farmers Union, and is assisting with Farms at Work a program trying to help get young farmers going.